Introduction

The proposed system is a web-based application that is designed to manage and handle the operations in an educational institution during Placements. It is an application that can be used by all the students and HRs of companies in an educational institute in order to facilitate the communication between them. The application is easily adaptable as it is used on desktop systems. The Placement test Automation system was developed for the educational institute to simplify the registration of students, faster generation results and reducing the time and cost of organizing placement drives. The project keeps track of various details in modules such as student details, HR Details and Admin Details with proper descriptions. This proposed system provides information which is accurate and no worry of data misplacement. All the information will be automatically stored in the database which is easy to search, modify or delete. Information related to room allocation can be added by admin and sent to the respective faculty or student from anywhere or at any time which saves a lot of time and effort. Most of the important processes in an TPO cell are carried out manually such as HR details, student information and number of students eligible for the drives.

1. Purpose

The purpose of this document is to explain various functionalities of the Online Objective Examination System. It provides a detailed overview of the system and explains its uses from the perspective of various types of users involved. It is written for the use of clients, developers and all other parties involved in the development process.

2. Need of the Project

Currently the On Campus Placement Tests mostly include a lot of manual calculations and are mostly paper based. The project aims to bring in a centralized system that will ensure the activities in the context of an examination that can be effectively managed. This system allows students to enroll themselves into the system by sharing details to admin. This is done by providing their personal and all the necessary details like Name, email, Roll Number, password etc. The provided details are then entered by the admin into the system to create their  login ids and passwords. Registered students are then mailed their ids and passwords. Students can login into the system using login id and either take an exam or view their performance in previous examinations. The generation of mark sheets for every registered student is automatic and is displayed immediately after a student has completed a test. The Company HR can either Make an Exam or view the results of previous tests. The tests can have maximum 5 sections which are attempted continuously by the students. Each section has its own cutoff specified by the HR (minimum marks to be obtained by the student to be eligible for the next section) and after every section has been completed, the students scoring less than the cutoff are eliminated. Only those clearing the sectional cut-off are allowed to enter the next section by the code of the next section. Thus, on a whole it serves as a complete automated software which handles the very tedious and complex process handled during the placement drives by the Training and Placement cell (TPO) of a college.

3. Scope of the Project

This software system will be an Online Placement Test Automation System designed for use in colleges. This system will be developed in order to minimize the lengthy formalities involved in question paper creation, candidate registration process, evaluating responses and publishing the results of multiple sections of an examination while simultaneously eliminating the users not clearing the sectional cut-off.

It will be designed in order to reduce the time, cost and workload of staff involved in examination procedure. It reduces the usage of paper and is hence eco-friendly. The aim of the software system is to automate the Objective Examination system. It would ensure smooth interaction of three types of users involved, namely student, HR and admin. The students would be able take the examination and receive a detailed performance report. HR would be able to create new question papers. Admin user will have access to profiles of all student and HR users, right to add or remove users, add or drop students to enrolled placement drives, assign company to HR, add or remove HR and company.
